{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg950\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u26684 \u24335 \u65288 Format\u65289 \u8594  \u36681 \u25104 \u32020 \u25991 \u23383 \u65288 Make Plain Text\u65289   \
\
# Beethoven Piano Sonatas \'97 Exploratory Data Analysis\
\
This project performs an exploratory data analysis (EDA) on ten Beethoven piano sonatas using MIDI data and Python.  \
Using the `music21` library, the analysis extracts key signatures, note density, pitch range, and compares early, middle, and late period sonatas.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55356 \u57263  Objectives\
\
1. Analyze key distribution across the selected sonatas.  \
2. Compute note density (notes per second) for each sonata.  \
3. Measure pitch range and identify stylistic patterns.  \
4. Compare characteristics of early, middle, and late period sonatas.  \
5. Visualize musical trends using bar and line charts.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56513  Project Structure\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 beethoven-eda-project/\
\uc0\u9500 \u9472  data/\
\uc0\u9474  \u9492 \u9472  midi/\
\uc0\u9500 \u9472  notebook/\
\uc0\u9474  \u9492 \u9472  beethoven_sonatas.ipynb\
\uc0\u9500 \u9472  assets/\
\uc0\u9474  \u9492 \u9472  images/\
\uc0\u9492 \u9472  README.md\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u9881  Methods\
\
### Pseudocode\
1. Upload MIDI files into Google Colab.  \
2. For each file:\
   - Parse using `music21.converter.parse()`\
   - Extract key signature  \
   - Count notes  \
   - Compute duration  \
   - Calculate note density  \
   - Measure pitch range  \
3. Store all extracted features into a DataFrame.  \
4. Visualize musical features using matplotlib.\
\
### Algorithm Summary\
- **Key signature:** `score.analyze("key")`  \
- **Duration:** `score.highestTime`  \
- **Notes:** count items inside `score.recurse().notes`  \
- **Pitch range:** max(pitches) \uc0\u8722  min(pitches)  \
- **Period grouping:**  \
  - Early: 1\'9610  \
  - Middle: 11\'9623  \
  - Late: 24\'9632  \
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56522  Results & Visualizations\
\
The following figures are generated in the notebook:\
\
- Key distribution  \
- Note density by sonata number  \
- Pitch range across sonatas  \
- Average note density by period  \
- Average pitch range by period  \
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55358 \u56810  Tools Used\
- Python  \
- music21  \
- pandas  \
- matplotlib  \
- Google Colab  \
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56524  GitHub Pages  \
This repository is published using GitHub Pages for online viewing.  \
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56538  References\
- Public-domain Beethoven MIDI files  \
- Music21 Documentation  \
- Matplotlib Documentation  \

\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}